# i3 Config Files

This repository contains my personal configuration files for the i3 window manager. These configuration files include keybindings and appearance settings.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Keybindings](#keybindings)
- [Appearance](#appearance)

## Installation

To use these configuration files with your i3 setup, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/vpk11/i3-config.git
    ```

2. **Backup your current i3 configuration:**
    ```bash
    mv ~/.config/i3/config ~/.config/i3/config.backup
    ```

3. **Copy the new configuration files:**
    ```bash
    cp i3-config/config ~/.config/i3/config
    ```

4. **Reload i3 configuration:**
    Press `Mod+Shift+R` to reload the i3 configuration.

## Configuration

The primary configuration file is `config`, located in the root of this repository. You can customize the settings to match your preferences. There are not many changes to the default config file generated by i3-wm.

### Keybindings

The configuration includes a set of keybindings to improve productivity. Here are some of the keybindings:

- `Mod+Enter`: Open a new terminal
- `Mod+d`: Launch rofi
- `Mod+Shift+q`: Close the focused window
- `Mod+Shift+r`: Reload i3 configuration
- `Mod+Shift+c`: Restart i3 in place

> [!IMPORTANT] 
> The terminal used in the config file is [ghostty](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty.git)\
> The program launcher used in the config file is [rofi](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi.git)

### Appearance

The configuration file includes settings for:

- i3status

### Workspaces

The configuration defines workspaces for organizing your windows. You can switch between workspaces using `Mod+1`, `Mod+2`, etc.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you have any improvements or new features, feel free to submit a pull request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-branch`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add new feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature-branch`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

